Now that we understand what function
constructors are, we can talk for a moment
in this conceptual aside about built-in
function constructors in JavaScript.
Function constructors that
are just there all ready
inside the JavaScript architecture and
ready to use inside the Java Script
engine, and how you might use them.
I have my console open here and
Google Chrome running.
And let's show some of the built-in
function constructors that exist.
Meaning that there are just some functions
and function prototypes that exist that
many of which you might have used already,
perhaps even without realizing it.
For example I could say that
some value is a new number.
And then give it a number
to initiate with.
Or even give it a string
to convert it to a number.
Something like that.
What is this?
Well, it's using the new operator, so this
is a function, a function constructor.
And JavaScript even uses the convention of
capitalizing the first letter of the word.
So I've created a new number.
If I hit enter and then output what A is,
notice that A is not a number,
it's not a primitive, it's an object.
Because function constructors create what?
Objects.
Then added a primitive value inside of it,
three, but
because it's an object
there's a prototype.
So there's a number dot prototype
which is what all number
objects will have access to.
And it has some built in methods,
like toPrecision or toFixed for
doing math and
conversion there on numbers.
Interesting right?
So that means I can do a.toFixed,
for example.
See that?
All right, let's try a different one.
How about A equals new String.
And I'll start it off with John.
This is also a function constructor.
And A dot has access to
a whole bunch of methods of things
that I could do with a string.
Because those methods don't
actually live on A, but
live on string.prototype, which is the
function constructor's prototype property,
where this variable's
prototype is pointing, right?
So, that's actually where these
interesting things like index of,
for example.
And I give it a character, and
it tells me whether or not it's there.
Or I give it a value and
Now, I did this on string.prototype so
I didn't find anything.
But if I do it on A,
then the this changes.
And I can find O at position one.
Zero, one.
See that?
So the string isn't itself though.
If I hit enter here, notice that string
is not a string, it's not a primitive.
It's an object.
It has all of these properties and
methods on it and then inside of it,
what's called boxed inside of it,
is the primitive value itself.
So these built in function constructors
look like you're creating primitives,
but you're not.
You're actually creating objects
that contain primitives and
give them extra abilities.
In some cases, JavaScript understands
that you intend to look at an object and
not a primitive.
So I could do John dot length.
What happened is that
the primitive is just a primitive,
it doesn't have properties or methods.
But the JavaScript engine boxed it
inside of a string object which has
all these properties and methods, and then
gave me access to it kinda automatically.
Basically the same as
going new String John, and
then doing the dot length on that.
Make sense?
So there are cases where the JavaScript
engine wraps up the primitive in
its object for you, just so you can use
properties and methods you might want to.
But anytime you see new, maybe a new data
takes a string inside
the function constructor.
This is just a function, and I called
new and so I get an object back, and
what is A?
Well A is an object
because when I hit dot,
I have a whole bunch of features that
the JavaScript engine provided on where?
Where are all of these properties and
methods actually living?
They're not actually living on A.
Where are they actually living?
Well this is the name of the function,
right?
So they're living on date dot prototype.
And that's where actually all those
methods and properties live on.
Make sense?
So when I'm using these
function constructors,
you have to remember that you're
actually creating objects.
And it turns out that this
can be somewhat useful,
especially if you're building
extra features in libraries or
frameworks to tack on to
these primitive values.
Or really any of the pre-existing
values like a raise, or objects, or
functions inside JavaScript.
So if I go to my app.js file,
let's say I want to
add a feature to all
strings in JavaScript.
Well we saw that JavaScript will
box those strings, that it'll,
it'll convert the primitive to the string
object which has a bunch of properties and
methods on it for you.
And that's pointing to a prototype where
those properties and methods actually
live, and there's nothing preventing
me in JavaScript from adding onto them.
So I can go string.prototype, which is
where all string objects will point at for
their prototype, where they'll look at
when going down the prototype chain.
And let's say I wanted to add a feature
like is length greater than and
I'll pass a limit.
And I'll return this,
now what is this going to be pointing at?
Well, if I have a string object, it'll be
pointing at that string object because
the JavaScript engine takes care of that
when going down the prototype chain.
Dot length is greater than limit, so
it'll give me back true or false.
So, I could say, let's say .console.log.
John dot.
Is length greater than.
And let's say, three.
So what's going to happen?
True.
What just happened?
Well, the primitive string was
automatically converted to a string
object generated by the string
prototype function.
This is a function.
It returns an object because
I put a dot after and
I added a method to the prototype, so
all strings instantly have
access to this method.
All strings everywhere.
That's the power of
prototypal inheritance.
I've just enhanced the JavaScript
programming language just like that.
And many libraries and frameworks
use this technique to add features.
To add concepts and ideas and utilities.
Now you have to know what you're doing,
you have to be careful,
you don't wanna overwrite an existing or
preexisting property or method.
But you can very powerfully affect
the language by understanding function
constructors, the prototype property
of a function constructor, and
editing the prototype property of
built in function constructors.
Make sense?
Now this worked because this string was
converted to an object automatically.
So can I do that with numbers?
Let's say I want to take number, which
is the built in function constructor.
It's just a function intended to
be used with the new keyword and
that'll affect it's prototype, so
hopefully affecting all objects
created with the number constructor.
And let's call this is positive and
this'll be a function that just says,
"Is this greater than
zero?" How about that?
So can I use that in the same way?
Refresh, I'll do three dot is positive.
Oh, error.
Why?
Well,
because JavaScript, while it's
nice enough to convert string for
me automatically won't convert
a number to an object automatically.
However, if I did something like A equals
new number, so I use that function
constructor, meaning A's prototype
will point at number dot prototype.
Then I could do A dot is positive.
So this whole thing of built
in function constructors.
It's neat and you can add some abilities.
Especially to things like arrays or
strings pretty easily.
But it gets a little dicey as you
try to deal with primitives versus
things that were created with the function
constructors that look like primitives.
This looks like it's a number.
It's not a number.
It's an object that wraps or boxes up
a number and adds a bunch of features.
So it can get confusing.
We're going to talk in the next lesson
about why this is dangerous for a moment.
And why in general you shouldn't
use function constructors,
the built in function constructors,
for these primitive types.
Unless you have to.
Even though it is useful to
add features in some cases.
All right, let's move on.